Tesla shares drop more than 4% after Elon Musk's Twitter poll
Electric vehicle maker Tesla's shares fell as much as 4.5 per cent at the start of trading on Monday after Elon Musk's Twitter followers largely voted in favour of the company's billionaire chief executive and co-founder selling 10 per cent of his holdings.
The stock of the fifth-largest publicly traded company in the US dropped nearly 7 per cent in premarket trading on Monday and was trading at $1,167.96 at 9.50am New York time.
Mr Musk had asked his 62.8 million followers on Saturday to vote in a poll on whether he should sell 10 per cent of his Tesla holdings. Voting closed on Sunday.
"Much is made lately of unrealised gains being a means of tax avoidance, so I propose selling 10 per cent of my Tesla stock," he had said on Twitter.
"I will abide by the results of this poll, whichever way it goes."
As of June 30, Mr Musk holds nearly 170.5 million shares of Tesla, valued at almost $200bn. His 10 per cent shares will be worth nearly $20bn.
The world's richest person proposed this move in a tweet citing discussions about wealthy people hoarding unrealised gains to avoid paying taxes.
Mr Musk was calling into question the Democrats' "billionaires' tax", which seeks contributions from America's most affluent by taxing their "tradable assets".
The proposed tax is expected to help fund US President Joe Biden's ambitious social policy and climate change legislation.
"Note, I do not take a cash salary or bonus from anywhere. I only have stock, thus the only way for me to pay taxes personally is to sell stock," Mr Musk said.
"It seems that the crowd thinks he [Mr Musk] should sell some stock and pay taxes," Neil Campling, co-head of Mirabaud Securities' Global Thematic Group, told The National.
"Last time we checked, taxes were not optional and the tax bill on his options will be over $10bn in due course anyhow, so the whole thing is a theatrical stunt.
"As he [Mr Musk] said in September, although nobody listened at the time, 'I will have to sell a lot of stock in Q4' ... so here we are. A stock sale seems imminent/likely."
